source/userguide/record.rst, before:

Record
======

*TODO: freeseer-record*

Report Tool
-----------

Issues can occasionally occur during a recording, such as the audio or video
not working, or perhaps the presenter does not wish to be recorded. After a
conference, it's difficult and time consuming for one person to know which
recordings have issues, especially if 100s of talks were recorded at the event.

To solve this issue, Freeseer comes with a basic reporting tool that allows the
person recording to report issues with their recordings inside the application.
This will allow whomever is uploading the recordings to quickly scan through
and find those which have issues.

Using the Report Tool
*************************

To access the report tool:

1. Open **freeseer-record**
2. Click **Help** > **Report**

A basic form will open for the currently selected talk:

.. image:: /images/reporttool.png

The form has 3 fields which need to be assessed by the reporter.

1. A textfield for a short comment describing the issue
2. A dropdown list containing options for the type of issue

   * Current options are "No Issue", "No Audio", "No Video", and
     "No Audio/Video"

3. A checkbox indicating if a Release Form was received [#release]_

After an event is complete the organizer can use the :ref:`report-editor` to
view the submitted reports.

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#release] The "Release Received" checkbox was added since many events require
  presenters to sign a legal release form indicating they are giving permission
  to record their talk.
.. Typically this option is used with the "No Issue" flag unless there are issues with the recording.
.. TODO: Review the above line before adding it back, I find it confusing.

Commit message:

Switch to the todo directive and replace image with figure.

source/userguide/record.rst, after:

Record
======

.. todo:: document freeseer-record

Report Tool
-----------

Issues can occasionally occur during a recording, such as the audio or video
not working, or perhaps the presenter does not wish to be recorded. After a
conference, it's difficult and time consuming for one person to know which
recordings have issues, especially if 100s of talks were recorded at the event.

To solve this issue, Freeseer comes with a basic reporting tool that allows the
person recording to report issues with their recordings inside the application.
This will allow whomever is uploading the recordings to quickly scan through
and find those which have issues.

Using the Report Tool
*************************

To access the report tool:

1. Open **freeseer-record**
2. Click **Help** > **Report**


.. figure:: /images/reporttool.png
    :align: center

    A basic form will open for the currently selected talk.

The form has 3 fields which need to be assessed by the reporter.

1. A textfield for a short comment describing the issue
2. A dropdown list containing options for the type of issue

   * Current options are "No Issue", "No Audio", "No Video", and
     "No Audio/Video"

3. A checkbox indicating if a Release Form was received [#release]_

After an event is complete the organizer can use the :ref:`report-editor` to
view the submitted reports.

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#release] The "Release Received" checkbox was added since many events require
  presenters to sign a legal release form indicating they are giving permission
  to record their talk.
.. Typically this option is used with the "No Issue" flag unless there are issues with the recording.
.. TODO: Review the above line before adding it back, I find it confusing.
