docs/source/quick-start.rst, before:

Quick-Start Guide
=================

Freeseer is a free and open source screencasting application, primarily
developed for capturing and streaming computer-aided presentations at conferences.

It's been successfully used to capture presentations, demos, training material,
and other videos. It's capable of handling large conferences with many talks
in various rooms.

With Freeseer, you can record video from external sources such as FireWire and
USB (e.g. webcam or another computer's screen via VGA output [#f1]_).

Freeseer is written in Python, uses Qt4 for its GUI, and Gstreamer for video/audio processing.
And it's based on open standards so it supports royalty free audio and video codecs.

`Read our history <http://fosslc.org/drupal/node/596>`_ to find out why Freeseer
was created.

.. _install_freeseer_package:

Installing Freeseer from a package
----------------------------------
.. warning::
  You should only install Freeseer from a package if you plan to use it as an
  end-user. If you want to contribute to the project, **do not**
  :ref:`install Freeseer from a package<install_freeseer_package>`
  (if you already have, you'll need to uninstall it). Instead, follow the
  instructions for :ref:`installing Freeseer for development<install-for-dev>`.

Arch Linux
**********
Freeseer is available in AUR: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/freeseer-git/

Or install with yaourt::

    yaourt -S freeseer-git

Gentoo Linux
************
Freeseer is available in PaddyMac's portage overlay: https://github.com/PaddyMac/overlay

After adding this overlay::

    emerge -av freeseer

OpenSUSE
********
Freeseer is available in the OpenSUSE repository::

    zypper install freeseer


Python Package Index
********************
Freeseer can also be installed with pip::

    pip install freeseer


.. _install-for-dev:

Installing Freeseer for Development
-----------------------------------

If you plan on contributing to Freeseer's development, you'll have to run
Freeseer from source.

#. Uninstall any previously installed instances of Freeseer
#. Obtain the source code by :ref:`forking and cloning the project <fork-freeseer>`
#. Install the required dependencies

   - Follow the below instructions for your operating system and
     :ref:`use pip to install additional dependencies<pypi-packages>`

Dependencies
************
+ Git
+ Python 2.7+
+ sqlite3
+ gstreamer0.10-python (pygst)
+ PyQT development tools

Debian and Ubuntu Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y build-essential git wget python2.7-dev python-gst0.10 python-gst0.10-dev \
      qt4-qmake python-qt4 python-qt4-dev python-qt4-sql pyqt4-dev-tools libqt4-dev libqt4-sql libqt4-sql-sqlite \
      gstreamer0.10-plugins-good gstreamer0.10-plugins-base gstreamer0.10-pulseaudio gstreamer0.10-alsa

Fedora Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

    sudo yum install git PyQt4-devel gstreamer-python sphinx python-sphinx

.. warning:: This list may be incomplete. Please :doc:`let us know </contact>` if you notice any missing packages.

Windows
^^^^^^^

.. note::  x86 version recommended whenever there is a choice.

- `python 2.7.* x86 <http://www.python.org/getit/>`_
- `setuptools-0.6c11.win32-py2.7 <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools#windows>`_
- `GStreamer-WinBuilds-GPL-x86-Beta04-0.10.7 <https://code.google.com/p/ossbuild/downloads/list>`_
- `GStreamer-WinBuilds-SDK-GPL-x86-Beta04-0.10.7 <https://code.google.com/p/ossbuild/downloads/list>`_
    * If you encounter the error ``"ImportError: DLL load failed"`` when
      attempting to run freeseer, copy the contents of
      ``<GStreamer_dir>\<version>\sdk\bindings\python\v2.7\lib`` to
      ``<GStreamer_dir>\<version>\lib``, and delete
      ``<GStreamer_dir>\<version>\lib\gstreamer-0.10\libgstpython-v2.6.dll``
- `PyQt-Py2.7-x86-gpl-4.8.5-1 <http://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/download>`_
- `PyGTK py2.7 all-in-one <http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/binaries/win32/pygtk/2.24/>`_
    * Windows 32-bit packages are recommended because pygtk-all-in-one package does not have a 64-bit installer.
    * Add the following paths to your PATH variable : ```C:\Python27;C:\Python27\Lib\site-packages\PyQt4\bin```

.. _pypi-packages:

PyPI Packages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You'll need to get some packages from the `Python Package Index <https://pypi.python.org/pypi>`_ (PyPI).

You can `install pip <http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/installing.html>`_
by securely downloading `get-pip.py <https://raw.github.com/pypa/pip/master/contrib/get-pip.py>`_
and executing it with administrator access::

    wget -q https://raw.github.com/pypa/pip/master/contrib/get-pip.py -O- | sudo python

If you already have pip, first upgrade it to the latest version::

    pip install --upgrade pip

Install the remaining packages. You may need administrator access.

On Linux::

    pip install -Ur dev_requirements.txt

On Windows::

    pip install -Ur windows_requirements.txt


Running Freeseer
----------------

Once you've installed Freeseer, you can run the various tools::

    freeseer         # Recording UI (default when no arguments supplied)
    freeseer record  # Recording UI
    freeseer talk    # Talk Editor UI
    freeseer config  # Configuration UI

You can view usage with the ``-h`` or ``--help`` option::

    freeseer -h         # General usage
    freeseer record -h  # Recording usage
    freeseer talk -h    # Talk Editor usage
    freeseer config -h  # Config usage

.. note::
  If you're going to hack on Freeseer, you'll need to run it from source.
  Go into the ``src/`` directory and run it like::

    python -m freeseer
    python -m freeseer record
    python -m freeseer talk
    python -m freeseer config


Issue tracker
-------------
Found an issue? Open an issue on GitHub!

https://github.com/Freeseer/freeseer/issues


IRC channel
-----------
Drop by our `#freeseer channel <http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#freeseer>`_
on irc.freenode.net to chat with us.


Mailing list
------------
We have a mailing list that's also a discussion group.

http://groups.google.com/group/freeseer

Once you've joined the group, you can email subscribers at freeseer@googlegroups.com.


Authors
-------
- `Andrew Ross <https://github.com/fosslc>`_
- `Thanh Ha <https://github.com/zxiiro>`_

And many student contributors from `Google Summer of Code <http://code.google.com/soc>`_, Fedora Summer Coding,
and `Undergraduate Capstone Open Source Projects <http://ucosp.ca>`_.


Copyright and license
---------------------
© 2011-2013 FOSSLC

Licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 3 (GPLv3);
you may not use this work except in compliance with the GPLv3.

You may obtain a copy of the GPLv3 in the `LICENSE file`_, or at
http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl.html.

.. _LICENSE file: https://raw.github.com/Freeseer/freeseer/a0497fabdc5a548d0dea4f6fb4925aa41a6d62e8/src/LICENSE

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] :ref:`Requires a VGA capture device <equipment>`, also known as a
         frame grabber.

Commit message:

Close #597 Document how to install Freeseer in editable mode
[skip ci]

docs/source/quick-start.rst, after:

Quick-Start Guide
=================

Freeseer is a free and open source screencasting application, primarily
developed for capturing and streaming computer-aided presentations at conferences.

It's been successfully used to capture presentations, demos, training material,
and other videos. It's capable of handling large conferences with many talks
in various rooms.

With Freeseer, you can record video from external sources such as FireWire and
USB (e.g. webcam or another computer's screen via VGA output [#f1]_).

Freeseer is written in Python, uses Qt4 for its GUI, and Gstreamer for video/audio processing.
And it's based on open standards so it supports royalty free audio and video codecs.

`Read our history <http://fosslc.org/drupal/node/596>`_ to find out why Freeseer
was created.

.. _install_freeseer_package:

Installing Freeseer from a package
----------------------------------
.. warning::
  You should only install Freeseer from a package if you plan to use it as an
  end-user. If you want to contribute to the project, **do not**
  :ref:`install Freeseer from a package<install_freeseer_package>`
  (if you already have, you'll need to uninstall it). Instead, follow the
  instructions for :ref:`installing Freeseer for development<install-for-dev>`.

Arch Linux
**********
Freeseer is available in AUR: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/freeseer-git/

Or install with yaourt::

    yaourt -S freeseer-git

Gentoo Linux
************
Freeseer is available in PaddyMac's portage overlay: https://github.com/PaddyMac/overlay

After adding this overlay::

    emerge -av freeseer

OpenSUSE
********
Freeseer is available in the OpenSUSE repository::

    zypper install freeseer


Python Package Index
********************
Freeseer can also be installed with pip::

    pip install freeseer


.. _install-for-dev:

Installing Freeseer for Development
-----------------------------------

If you plan on contributing to Freeseer's development, you'll have to run
Freeseer from source.

#. Uninstall any previously installed instances of Freeseer
#. Obtain the source code by :ref:`forking and cloning the project <fork-freeseer>`
#. Install the required dependencies

   - Follow the below instructions for your operating system and
     :ref:`use pip to install additional dependencies<pypi-packages>`

Now you're ready to run Freeseer from the command line.
There are two ways to do this.

a) Run the Freeseer module as a script::

    cd freeseer/src/
    python -m freeseer

   You'll have to repeat these steps whenever you want to run Freeseer.

b) Install Freeseer in editable mode::

    cd freeseer/src/
    pip install -e .

   After this one-time install, you can now run ``freeseer`` from anywhere.

Dependencies
************
+ Git
+ Python 2.7+
+ sqlite3
+ gstreamer0.10-python (pygst)
+ PyQT development tools

Debian and Ubuntu Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y build-essential git wget python2.7-dev python-gst0.10 python-gst0.10-dev \
      qt4-qmake python-qt4 python-qt4-dev python-qt4-sql pyqt4-dev-tools libqt4-dev libqt4-sql libqt4-sql-sqlite \
      gstreamer0.10-plugins-good gstreamer0.10-plugins-base gstreamer0.10-pulseaudio gstreamer0.10-alsa

Fedora Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

    sudo yum install git PyQt4-devel gstreamer-python sphinx python-sphinx

.. warning:: This list may be incomplete. Please :doc:`let us know </contact>` if you notice any missing packages.

Windows
^^^^^^^

.. note::  x86 version recommended whenever there is a choice.

- `python 2.7.* x86 <http://www.python.org/getit/>`_
- `setuptools-0.6c11.win32-py2.7 <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools#windows>`_
- `GStreamer-WinBuilds-GPL-x86-Beta04-0.10.7 <https://code.google.com/p/ossbuild/downloads/list>`_
- `GStreamer-WinBuilds-SDK-GPL-x86-Beta04-0.10.7 <https://code.google.com/p/ossbuild/downloads/list>`_
    * If you encounter the error ``"ImportError: DLL load failed"`` when
      attempting to run freeseer, copy the contents of
      ``<GStreamer_dir>\<version>\sdk\bindings\python\v2.7\lib`` to
      ``<GStreamer_dir>\<version>\lib``, and delete
      ``<GStreamer_dir>\<version>\lib\gstreamer-0.10\libgstpython-v2.6.dll``
- `PyQt-Py2.7-x86-gpl-4.8.5-1 <http://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/download>`_
- `PyGTK py2.7 all-in-one <http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/binaries/win32/pygtk/2.24/>`_
    * Windows 32-bit packages are recommended because pygtk-all-in-one package does not have a 64-bit installer.
    * Add the following paths to your PATH variable : ```C:\Python27;C:\Python27\Lib\site-packages\PyQt4\bin```

.. _pypi-packages:

PyPI Packages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You'll need to get some packages from the `Python Package Index <https://pypi.python.org/pypi>`_ (PyPI).

You can `install pip <http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/installing.html>`_
by securely downloading `get-pip.py <https://raw.github.com/pypa/pip/master/contrib/get-pip.py>`_
and executing it with administrator access::

    wget -q https://raw.github.com/pypa/pip/master/contrib/get-pip.py -O- | sudo python

If you already have pip, first upgrade it to the latest version::

    pip install --upgrade pip

Install the remaining packages. You may need administrator access.

On Linux::

    pip install -Ur dev_requirements.txt

On Windows::

    pip install -Ur windows_requirements.txt


Running Freeseer
----------------

Once you've installed Freeseer, you can run the various tools::

    freeseer         # Recording UI (default when no arguments supplied)
    freeseer record  # Recording UI
    freeseer talk    # Talk Editor UI
    freeseer config  # Configuration UI

You can view usage with the ``-h`` or ``--help`` option::

    freeseer -h         # General usage
    freeseer record -h  # Recording usage
    freeseer talk -h    # Talk Editor usage
    freeseer config -h  # Config usage

.. note::
  If you're going to hack on Freeseer, you'll need to run it from source.
  Go into the ``src/`` directory and run it like::

    python -m freeseer
    python -m freeseer record
    python -m freeseer talk
    python -m freeseer config


Issue tracker
-------------
Found an issue? Open an issue on GitHub!

https://github.com/Freeseer/freeseer/issues


IRC channel
-----------
Drop by our `#freeseer channel <http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#freeseer>`_
on irc.freenode.net to chat with us.


Mailing list
------------
We have a mailing list that's also a discussion group.

http://groups.google.com/group/freeseer

Once you've joined the group, you can email subscribers at freeseer@googlegroups.com.


Authors
-------
- `Andrew Ross <https://github.com/fosslc>`_
- `Thanh Ha <https://github.com/zxiiro>`_

And many student contributors from `Google Summer of Code <http://code.google.com/soc>`_, Fedora Summer Coding,
and `Undergraduate Capstone Open Source Projects <http://ucosp.ca>`_.


Copyright and license
---------------------
© 2011-2013 FOSSLC

Licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 3 (GPLv3);
you may not use this work except in compliance with the GPLv3.

You may obtain a copy of the GPLv3 in the `LICENSE file`_, or at
http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl.html.

.. _LICENSE file: https://raw.github.com/Freeseer/freeseer/a0497fabdc5a548d0dea4f6fb4925aa41a6d62e8/src/LICENSE

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] :ref:`Requires a VGA capture device <equipment>`, also known as a
         frame grabber.
