docs/README.md, before:

[![Freeseer][freeseer-banner]][freeseer-docs]

Freeseer Documentation
----------------------

We use [Sphinx](http://sphinx.pocoo.org) to generate the project's documentation.
Documentation is written in [reStructuredText](http://docutils.sf.net/rst.html)
and stored in `.rst` files.

We use [Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/freeseer/) for hosting.
RTD uses a [web hook](http://read-the-docs.readthedocs.org/en/latest/webhooks.html)
to build the documentation whenever we push to this repository.

Getting Started
---------------
The [Sphinx](http://sphinx.pocoo.org) website covers everything, but here's the
gist of what you need:

1. [Install Sphinx](http://sphinx-doc.org/latest/install.html): `pip install -U sphinx`
2. Use the [reStructuredText Primer](http://sphinx.pocoo.org/rest.html) as a reference when writing

Autogenerated Documentation from Docstrings
-------------------------------------------

We have the ability to [include documentation from docstrings][autodoc].
For this to work, the docstrings must be written in correct reStructuredText.
You can then use all of the usual Sphinx markup in the docstrings and it will end
up correctly in the documentation.

Together with hand-written documentation, this technique eases the pain of
having to maintain two locations for documentation, while at the same time
avoiding auto-generated-looking pure API documentation.

We currently use this for plugins (see the userguide in the docs), and plan on
doing the same for more of our modules.

Build & Preview your Changes Locally
------------------------------------

Once you've made your changes to the documentation, rebuild the HTML output.

    $ cd docs/
    $ make clean # Optional. Removes the build/ directory. Use if experiencing issues due to Sphinx's cache.
    $ make html

Your updated HTML files should be in `docs/build/html/`.

There are two ways to view the built documentation locally:
1. Open any of the HTML files in `docs/build/html/` with your web browser.
2. Serve the contents of `docs/build/html/` from a local server.  
   You can easily do this by running `python -m SimpleHTTPServer` from
   `docs/build/html` and navigating your browser to `localhost:8000`.

**Tip:** GitHub can render reStructredText (but doesn't support Sphinx markup).
         View any .rst file to see how it looks.

**Tip:** View the underlying reStructuredText of any webpage built with Sphinx
         by clicking the "Show Source" link on the page you're on.

[freeseer-banner]: https://github.com/Freeseer/freeseer.github.io/raw/master/img/banner.png "Freeseer by FOSSLC"
[freeseer-docs]: http://freeseer.rtfd.org
[autodoc]: http://sphinx-doc.org/ext/autodoc.html

Commit message:

Improve getting started section for docs
- Previous installation instructions contained a typo in the package name
  (package name is in titlecase, not lowercase)

- Suggest using requirements.txt to install Sphinx

- Use markdown's reference links for links in getting started section

- Recommend the official install instructions only if pip install failed

- Simplify step 2, remove confusing end of sentence

- Specify the latest version of Sphinx for installation, up to 1.9

  2.0.0 (if ever reached) may contain breaking changes, so we don't want
  to auto-update to that.

docs/README.md, after:

[![Freeseer][freeseer-banner]][freeseer-docs]

Freeseer Documentation
----------------------

We use [Sphinx](http://sphinx.pocoo.org) to generate the project's documentation.
Documentation is written in [reStructuredText](http://docutils.sf.net/rst.html)
and stored in `.rst` files.

We use [Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/freeseer/) for hosting.
RTD uses a [web hook](http://read-the-docs.readthedocs.org/en/latest/webhooks.html)
to build the documentation whenever we push to this repository.

Getting Started
---------------
The [Sphinx](http://sphinx.pocoo.org) website covers everything, but here's the
gist of what you need:

1. Install Sphinx with `pip install -Ur requirements.txt`  
   If that doesn't work, try the [official instructions][install-sphinx]
2. Use the [reStructuredText Primer][rst-primer] as a reference

Autogenerated Documentation from Docstrings
-------------------------------------------

We have the ability to [include documentation from docstrings][autodoc].
For this to work, the docstrings must be written in correct reStructuredText.
You can then use all of the usual Sphinx markup in the docstrings and it will end
up correctly in the documentation.

Together with hand-written documentation, this technique eases the pain of
having to maintain two locations for documentation, while at the same time
avoiding auto-generated-looking pure API documentation.

We currently use this for plugins (see the userguide in the docs), and plan on
doing the same for more of our modules.

Build & Preview your Changes Locally
------------------------------------

Once you've made your changes to the documentation, rebuild the HTML output.

    $ cd docs/
    $ make clean # Optional. Removes the build/ directory. Use if experiencing issues due to Sphinx's cache.
    $ make html

Your updated HTML files should be in `docs/build/html/`.

There are two ways to view the built documentation locally:
1. Open any of the HTML files in `docs/build/html/` with your web browser.
2. Serve the contents of `docs/build/html/` from a local server.  
   You can easily do this by running `python -m SimpleHTTPServer` from
   `docs/build/html` and navigating your browser to `localhost:8000`.

**Tip:** GitHub can render reStructredText (but doesn't support Sphinx markup).
         View any .rst file to see how it looks.

**Tip:** View the underlying reStructuredText of any webpage built with Sphinx
         by clicking the "Show Source" link on the page you're on.

[freeseer-banner]: https://github.com/Freeseer/freeseer.github.io/raw/master/img/banner.png "Freeseer by FOSSLC"
[freeseer-docs]: http://freeseer.rtfd.org
[autodoc]: http://sphinx-doc.org/ext/autodoc.html
[install-sphinx]: http://sphinx-doc.org/latest/install.html
[rst-primer]: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/rest.html
