source/contribute/index.rst, before:

Contributor Guide
=================

At Freeseer, we know that software development isn't just about code. We're looking for writers, designers, power users, 
and user experience experts to collaborate with us to make a world-class platform. All are welcome. 

Where to Start?
---------------

The most frequently-asked question we get from potential contributors is "Where do I begin?"
Our answer is always "What are your skills? What are you most interested in working on?"

Freeseer is just as much about community as it is about code, so if you're brand new, the first step is to get onto the
:doc:`community mailing list </contact>` and introduce yourself. Tell us what your skills are and what you're most
excited about in Freeseer, and how you'd like to help. The community can help point you in the right direction. 

How you can contribute to a great open source project depends on your skillset.

I am a...
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   students
   developers/index
   documentation
   translation
   designers
   powerusers

.. student/intern
.. developer
.. technical writer
.. translator
.. UI designer / UX expert
.. power user

If you're interested in lending a hand, please do :doc:`get in touch </contact>`.

Installing Freeseer
-------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   install

Basics
------

No matter which role you take on, these are some of the basics you’ll most likely have to deal with.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   basics

Best Practices
--------------

Some tips and suggestions to get the most out of your contributions!

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   best-practices

Commit message:

Remove "Where to Start?" section
Incorporate some of it into the intro text.

source/contribute/index.rst, after:

Contributor Guide
=================

We value developers, but a project doesn't just run on code contributions.
Writers, designers, power users, and others all play a role in our success.

How you can contribute depends on your skillset and interests. If you need help
deciding, :doc:`tell us </contact>` what your skills are and what you're most
excited about in Freeseer, and how you'd like to help. The community can point
you in the right direction.

I am a...
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   students
   developers/index
   documentation
   translation
   designers
   powerusers

.. student/intern
.. developer
.. technical writer
.. translator
.. UI designer / UX expert
.. power user

If you're interested in lending a hand, please do :doc:`get in touch </contact>`.

Installing Freeseer
-------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   install

Basics
------

No matter which role you take on, these are some of the basics you’ll most likely have to deal with.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   basics

Best Practices
--------------

Some tips and suggestions to get the most out of your contributions!

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   best-practices
