source/contribute/students.rst, before:

Student
=======

We love working with students and having them solve fun and challenging problems.
For many, it's their first time contributing to an open source project.
We've had students from Google Summer of Code (GSoC), Undergraduate Capstone
Open Source Projects (UCOSP), and Fedora Summer Coding.

Getting Started
---------------
#. `Create a GitHub account <https://github.com/signup/free>`_
#. Introduce yourself on our :ref:`mailing list <mailing-list>`

   - Include your GitHub username so we can add you to the `Freeseer organization
     <https://github.com/Freeseer?tab=members>`_
#. Get familiar with IRC and start hanging out in :ref:`#freeseer on Freenode <irc>`
#. :ref:`Fork & clone Freeseer <fork-freeseer>`
#. Get Freeseer up and running, play around with it, look at the source code
#. Read over the `assessment document
   <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p9DtTujpSMj_i5mXVfUGtzvJS02rwpf9RvSK65ayklo/edit>`_
#. Copy the `project proposal document
   <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1it9UJo91tDGB1Cf2Qyn3rAzXX8icxoBZI183eqjASUc/edit>`_
   to your Google Drive
   
   - ``File`` → ``Make a copy``
   - Change the sharing settings so **anyone with the link can view and
     comment**, then share the link with us
   - Replace the highlighted sections with your own content
#. Bookmark the style guides that we use:
   `PEP 8 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_ and
   `Google's Python Style Guide
   <http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyguide.html>`_

   - Reference them when writing code
#. Sign up for a blogging platform (or use your own website)

   - Share the URL on the mailing list
#. Start thinking of ways how you can improve Freeseer!

.. tip::
  As a student, you can apply for a **free micro account** at
  `github.com/edu <http://github.com/edu>`_ and get 5 private repositories!

Deciding What To Work On
------------------------

We let students choose their projects. There are no set work hours -- we think
you work best when you want to work. Meet your deadlines and you'll be fine.

Depending on which program you're participating in, you may have to attend a
`sprint <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sprint_(software_development)>`_ with your
new teammates. We usually let students brainstorm at the sprint what to work on.

If you've followed the steps above, you should have a copy of the `project design document
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1it9UJo91tDGB1Cf2Qyn3rAzXX8icxoBZI183eqjASUc/edit>`_
on your Google Docs/Drive account. The reason we ask that you keep it on Google's
cloud is so that we, the mentors, can easily find and comment on your document.

.. important::
  Verify that your sharing settings allow us to view and comment on the document!

You may modify the design document by adding or removing sections that you think
are relevant or irrelevant to your project.
It also includes a timeline to help schedule your work.
Decide with your professor and/or project mentor when your exact end date will be.

We don't expect your design document to be perfect right away.
Don't spend too much (or too little) time on it. In this case it's better to
release early and release often as opposed to a highly polished document on your
first try.

When you finish your first draft of the document, notify everyone on the
mailing list and include a link so they can view it on Google Docs/Drive.
We'll give you feedback so you can make any changes if necessary.

.. tip::
  You can start working on your project while your design document is still in progress.

Because Freeseer is still a relatively young project and has a small codebase,
there is lots of room for improvement. This means that your contributions will
have a huge impact on the future of Freeseer! Due to the small size of our
community, you'll also have a lot of responsibility. We learn a lot from working
with students, don't be shy to point out when we're wrong or to suggest a better
alternative!


Stay In Touch
-------------

A good analogy is driving to a destination. Imagine a friend is driving and
you're the navigator. The more updates you give your driver, the sooner and
safer you'll get to your destination. On the other hand, rarely updating your
driver with directions can get you easily lost or you may not reach your
destination on time.

Same goes with your teammates in a project. If you update them frequently, they
can help you out often and give you feedback on your work so there's less chance
of screwing up. But if no one knows what you're working on or if you're having
difficulties, then by the time they find out it may be too late to make changes
or get help.

In addition to being active on the mailing list and IRC, you'll be required to
write a few blog posts about your progress. There's usually one at the
beginning, one at the midpoint of the term, and one at the end, but feel free to
write more!

You may write your blog posts at `fosslc.org <http://www.fosslc.org>`_ (you'll
have to register an account first).  Or, if you prefer, you may use your own
blog. Just tell us on the mailing list where we can read your latest blog post.


Expectations
------------

* Be available for others to contact you
* Communicate often: be active on IRC, the mailing list, and status updates
* Be a team player, not just a teammate
* Post updates often, let us know when you completed a feature or if you're having difficulty
* Ask for help when you need it!
* 8-10 hours of work per week


How To Succeed
--------------

* Choose an appropriate project that you can realistically accomplish
* We don't expect you to be completely qualified, that's the point, you're here to learn

.. seealso::
  `How to succeed or fail at Google Summer of Code <http://fosslc.org/drupal/node/374>`_

Commit message:

Add new section about the sprint

source/contribute/students.rst, after:

Student
=======

We love working with students and having them solve fun and challenging problems.
For many, it's their first time contributing to an open source project.
We've had students from Google Summer of Code (GSoC), Undergraduate Capstone
Open Source Projects (UCOSP), and Fedora Summer Coding.

Getting Started
---------------
#. `Create a GitHub account <https://github.com/signup/free>`_
#. Introduce yourself on our :ref:`mailing list <mailing-list>`

   - Include your GitHub username so we can add you to the `Freeseer organization
     <https://github.com/Freeseer?tab=members>`_
#. Get familiar with IRC and start hanging out in :ref:`#freeseer on Freenode <irc>`
#. :ref:`Fork & clone Freeseer <fork-freeseer>`
#. Get Freeseer up and running, play around with it, look at the source code
#. Read over the `assessment document
   <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p9DtTujpSMj_i5mXVfUGtzvJS02rwpf9RvSK65ayklo/edit>`_
#. Copy the `project proposal document
   <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1it9UJo91tDGB1Cf2Qyn3rAzXX8icxoBZI183eqjASUc/edit>`_
   to your Google Drive
   
   - ``File`` → ``Make a copy``
   - Change the sharing settings so **anyone with the link can view and
     comment**, then share the link with us
   - Replace the highlighted sections with your own content
#. Bookmark the style guides that we use:
   `PEP 8 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_ and
   `Google's Python Style Guide
   <http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyguide.html>`_

   - Reference them when writing code
#. Sign up for a blogging platform (or use your own website)

   - Share the URL on the mailing list
#. Start thinking of ways how you can improve Freeseer!

.. tip::
  As a student, you can apply for a **free micro account** at
  `github.com/edu <http://github.com/edu>`_ and get 5 private repositories!

What Happens at the Sprint
--------------------------

Depending on which program you're participating in, you may have to attend
a `sprint <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sprint_(software_development)>`_ with
your new teammates. Use the sprint to ask questions, help your teammates,
brainstorm what to work on, get started on your project proposal, open a pull
request, make new friends, and generally have a good time.

We'll also decide on a time for our weekly G+ hangouts, which are done `scrum
style <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(software_development)#Meetings>`_.
Each team member will briefly update the others with what they've accomplished
since the last meeting, what they will be working on next, and any stumbling
blocks they ran into. Any detailed discussion should happen outside the meeting.


Deciding What To Work On
------------------------

We let students choose their projects. There are no set work hours -- we think
you work best when you want to work. Meet your deadlines and you'll be fine.

Depending on which program you're participating in, you may have to attend a
`sprint <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sprint_(software_development)>`_ with your
new teammates. We usually let students brainstorm at the sprint what to work on.

If you've followed the steps above, you should have a copy of the `project design document
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1it9UJo91tDGB1Cf2Qyn3rAzXX8icxoBZI183eqjASUc/edit>`_
on your Google Docs/Drive account. The reason we ask that you keep it on Google's
cloud is so that we, the mentors, can easily find and comment on your document.

.. important::
  Verify that your sharing settings allow us to view and comment on the document!

You may modify the design document by adding or removing sections that you think
are relevant or irrelevant to your project.
It also includes a timeline to help schedule your work.
Decide with your professor and/or project mentor when your exact end date will be.

We don't expect your design document to be perfect right away.
Don't spend too much (or too little) time on it. In this case it's better to
release early and release often as opposed to a highly polished document on your
first try.

When you finish your first draft of the document, notify everyone on the
mailing list and include a link so they can view it on Google Docs/Drive.
We'll give you feedback so you can make any changes if necessary.

.. tip::
  You can start working on your project while your design document is still in progress.

Because Freeseer is still a relatively young project and has a small codebase,
there is lots of room for improvement. This means that your contributions will
have a huge impact on the future of Freeseer! Due to the small size of our
community, you'll also have a lot of responsibility. We learn a lot from working
with students, don't be shy to point out when we're wrong or to suggest a better
alternative!


Stay In Touch
-------------

A good analogy is driving to a destination. Imagine a friend is driving and
you're the navigator. The more updates you give your driver, the sooner and
safer you'll get to your destination. On the other hand, rarely updating your
driver with directions can get you easily lost or you may not reach your
destination on time.

Same goes with your teammates in a project. If you update them frequently, they
can help you out often and give you feedback on your work so there's less chance
of screwing up. But if no one knows what you're working on or if you're having
difficulties, then by the time they find out it may be too late to make changes
or get help.

In addition to being active on the mailing list and IRC, you'll be required to
write a few blog posts about your progress. There's usually one at the
beginning, one at the midpoint of the term, and one at the end, but feel free to
write more!

You may write your blog posts at `fosslc.org <http://www.fosslc.org>`_ (you'll
have to register an account first).  Or, if you prefer, you may use your own
blog. Just tell us on the mailing list where we can read your latest blog post.


Expectations
------------

* Be available for others to contact you
* Communicate often: be active on IRC, the mailing list, and status updates
* Be a team player, not just a teammate
* Post updates often, let us know when you completed a feature or if you're having difficulty
* Ask for help when you need it!
* 8-10 hours of work per week


How To Succeed
--------------

* Choose an appropriate project that you can realistically accomplish
* We don't expect you to be completely qualified, that's the point, you're here to learn

.. seealso::
  `How to succeed or fail at Google Summer of Code <http://fosslc.org/drupal/node/374>`_
