source/contact.rst, before:

:orphan:

Contact Us
==========

The Freeseer community is available to brainstorm, ask and answer questions,
and offer support online.

.. _mailing-list:

Mailing List
------------

Join the Freeseer discussion group at http://groups.google.com/group/freeseer.
Once you've joined, you can post and receive updates through the website, or
through freeseer@googlegroups.com.

.. warning::
  The `Freeseer mailing list on bluehost
  <http://box674.bluehost.com/mailman/listinfo/freeseer_fosslc.org>`_
  (freeseer@fosslc.org) is deprecated and should no longer be used.

.. _irc:

IRC Channel
-----------

Instant message with the Freeseer community on IRC.

* Server: irc.freenode.net
* Channel: #freeseer

.. seealso::
   `The role of IRC in open source development and applications for using IRC
   <https://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/wiki/Irc>`_

IRC Clients
^^^^^^^^^^^

You can `join using your browser <http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#freeseer>`_
or your favourite IRC client.

If you enjoy working from the terminal, you can try `irssi <http://irssi.org/>`_.
To quickly get started:

::

    $ sudo apt-get install irssi
    $ irssi
    # Then, from irssi's prompt:
    /connect irc.freenode.net
    /nick your-nickname
    /join #freeseer

.. tip::

  - To get someone's attention on IRC, mention their username

    - Some IRC clients (like irssi) support autocompletion via the tab key
  - Some clients support shortcuts, such as ``/j`` for ``/join`` and ``/w`` for ``/who``
  - To block activity messages in a channel:
    ``/ignore -channels #freeseer * JOINS PARTS QUITS NICKS``

    - You can specificy more channels by comma separating them

Channel Bot
^^^^^^^^^^^

You've probably noticed BotBot ``[o__o]`` hanging out in `#freeseer`.
BotBot is our friendly channel bot from `BotBot.me <https://botbot.me>`_.

BotBot responds to certain queries. Try asking BotBot for help::

    You | [o__o]: help
 [o__o] | Available plugins: logger, ping, help, github (https://botbot.me/freenode/freeseer/help/)

BotBot will gladly fetch GitHub issues (and Pull Requests) for you,
just type ``gh#<issue-number>``::

    You | gh#401
 [o__o] | Database upgrade failed when starting freeseer: https://github.com/Freeseer/freeseer/issues/401

BotBot also keeps a searchable **log of our channel**.
Read any discussions you missed at http://botbot.me/freenode/freeseer.

Twitter, Facebook, and Blog
---------------------------

You can also find Freeseer community members on various channels across the web:

* On Twitter, follow `@fosslc <http://twitter.com/fosslc>`_
* Like `FOSSLC's Facebook Page <https://www.facebook.com/FreeAndOpenSourceSoftwareLearningCentre>`_
* Read and comment on `FOSSLC's blog <http://www.fosslc.org/drupal/category/community/freeseer>`_

.. note::

    Part of the Freeseer community prefers to blog about Freeseer on their personal blogs.

Toll-free Phone Number
----------------------

Call for free at **1-877-253-0617 x27**.
If Andrew (our project leader) isn't available to answer the call,
then you'll be asked to leave a voicemail message.

Google+ Hangouts
----------------

We occasionally use `Google+ Hangouts
<http://www.google.com/+/learnmore/hangouts/>`_ for Freeseer meetings.

Here's some tips for joining our next video chat:

* Add `Andrew Ross <http://gplus.to/aross>`_ to your G+ circles,
  he leads the discussion and starts the hangout
* Have a webcam ready (not recommended for slow connections)
* Have a headset ready (optional but recommended)

Using the Appropriate Communication Method
------------------------------------------
- Use the **mailing list** to discuss topics that affect the whole Freeseer community.

  - Examples: introducing yourself, showing a draft or final version of your
    project proposal, requesting help on a problem after an unsuccessful
    attempt in the IRC room, progress updates
  - If you're unsure which communication method to use, use the mailing list!
- Use the **IRC channel** to have quick discussions that do not
  require input from the whole community.

  - Examples: need help with a bug, questions about the source code or
    git, general questions about Freeseer
  - Off-topic discussions are allowed, as long as they don't interrupt any
    on-going discussions
- Don't contact us through **Twitter**, **Facebook**, or the **blog**. Those
  services are mainly used to broadcast information to the public, and they are
  not necessarily ran by us (i.e. Freeseer contributors).
- Use the **toll-free phone number** if you need to contact Andrew urgently.
- Use **G+ Hangouts** for Freeseer meetings where we discuss progress updates.

Commit message:

Update IRC clients sections
- Remove recommendation for a specific IRC client (irssi)

- Remove example usage of irssi (different clients work differently)

- Remove alias tip (not common enough in all clients to be useful)

- Add tip about smart filters existing in some clients

source/contact.rst, after:

:orphan:

Contact Us
==========

The Freeseer community is available to brainstorm, ask and answer questions,
and offer support online.

.. _mailing-list:

Mailing List
------------

Join the Freeseer discussion group at http://groups.google.com/group/freeseer.
Once you've joined, you can post and receive updates through the website, or
through freeseer@googlegroups.com.

.. warning::
  The `Freeseer mailing list on bluehost
  <http://box674.bluehost.com/mailman/listinfo/freeseer_fosslc.org>`_
  (freeseer@fosslc.org) is deprecated and should no longer be used.

.. _irc:

IRC Channel
-----------

Instant message with the Freeseer community on IRC.

* Server: irc.freenode.net
* Channel: #freeseer

.. seealso::
   `The role of IRC in open source development and applications for using IRC
   <https://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/wiki/Irc>`_

IRC Clients
^^^^^^^^^^^

You'll need some way to join the IRC channel, that's typically done through an IRC client.
There are way too many IRC clients to list them all. The easiest is to
`use your browser <http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#freeseer>`_,
but it's not a recommended long-term solution.

.. tip::

  - To get someone's attention on IRC, mention their username

    - Some IRC clients support username autocompletion via the tab key
  - To block activity messages in a channel:
    ``/ignore -channels #freeseer * JOINS PARTS QUITS NICKS``

    - You can specificy more channels by comma separating them
    - Some clients (e.g. weechat) support "smart filters" to automatically hide noisy activity messages

Channel Bot
^^^^^^^^^^^

You've probably noticed BotBot ``[o__o]`` hanging out in `#freeseer`.
BotBot is our friendly channel bot from `BotBot.me <https://botbot.me>`_.

BotBot responds to certain queries. Try asking BotBot for help::

    You | [o__o]: help
 [o__o] | Available plugins: logger, ping, help, github (https://botbot.me/freenode/freeseer/help/)

BotBot will gladly fetch GitHub issues (and Pull Requests) for you,
just type ``gh#<issue-number>``::

    You | gh#401
 [o__o] | Database upgrade failed when starting freeseer: https://github.com/Freeseer/freeseer/issues/401

BotBot also keeps a searchable **log of our channel**.
Read any discussions you missed at http://botbot.me/freenode/freeseer.

Twitter, Facebook, and Blog
---------------------------

You can also find Freeseer community members on various channels across the web:

* On Twitter, follow `@fosslc <http://twitter.com/fosslc>`_
* Like `FOSSLC's Facebook Page <https://www.facebook.com/FreeAndOpenSourceSoftwareLearningCentre>`_
* Read and comment on `FOSSLC's blog <http://www.fosslc.org/drupal/category/community/freeseer>`_

.. note::

    Part of the Freeseer community prefers to blog about Freeseer on their personal blogs.

Toll-free Phone Number
----------------------

Call for free at **1-877-253-0617 x27**.
If Andrew (our project leader) isn't available to answer the call,
then you'll be asked to leave a voicemail message.

Google+ Hangouts
----------------

We occasionally use `Google+ Hangouts
<http://www.google.com/+/learnmore/hangouts/>`_ for Freeseer meetings.

Here's some tips for joining our next video chat:

* Add `Andrew Ross <http://gplus.to/aross>`_ to your G+ circles,
  he leads the discussion and starts the hangout
* Have a webcam ready (not recommended for slow connections)
* Have a headset ready (optional but recommended)

Using the Appropriate Communication Method
------------------------------------------
- Use the **mailing list** to discuss topics that affect the whole Freeseer community.

  - Examples: introducing yourself, showing a draft or final version of your
    project proposal, requesting help on a problem after an unsuccessful
    attempt in the IRC room, progress updates
  - If you're unsure which communication method to use, use the mailing list!
- Use the **IRC channel** to have quick discussions that do not
  require input from the whole community.

  - Examples: need help with a bug, questions about the source code or
    git, general questions about Freeseer
  - Off-topic discussions are allowed, as long as they don't interrupt any
    on-going discussions
- Don't contact us through **Twitter**, **Facebook**, or the **blog**. Those
  services are mainly used to broadcast information to the public, and they are
  not necessarily ran by us (i.e. Freeseer contributors).
- Use the **toll-free phone number** if you need to contact Andrew urgently.
- Use **G+ Hangouts** for Freeseer meetings where we discuss progress updates.
